# Matlab Notebooks for the book:
## PERVASIVE CARDIOVASCULAR AND RESPIRATORY MONITORING DEVICES: Model-Based Design

Author: Miodrag Bolic, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada<br> www.eecs.uottawa.ca/~mbolic <br>
Publisher: Elsevier <br>
Publication date: June 2023 <br>

### Description of this repository
The modeling software Matlab®/Simulink® by MathWorks Inc was selected because it is well-known in the engineering community. The code is given in the form of notebooks (live editor in Matlab). Notebooks are suitable for learning because they present code with explanations so that students can read the material and then try the code in the same environment. Every figure in the book that includes simulation has the corresponding code. When you open [Main_Content](https://github.com/Health-Devices/CARDIAC-RESPIRATORY-MONITORING/blob/master/Main_Content.pdf), you will find the name of the file that is used to generate each figure and example. For example, Example 1.2 and Figures 1.1 and 1.2 are generated by Chapter1/CLT/CLT_CI.mlx . The html version of the Matlab notebooks can be found [M. Bolic Book Code Web Site](https://www.site.uottawa.ca/~mbolic/Book/Main_Content.html).

### Description of the book
Pervasive Cardiac and Respiratory Monitoring Devices: Model-Based Design is the first book to combine biomedical instrumentation and model-based design. As the scope is limited to cardiac and respiratory devices only, this book offers more depth of information on these devices; focusing in on signals used for home monitoring and offering additional analysis of these devices. The author offers an insight into new industry and research trends, including advances in contactless monitoring of breathing and heart rate. Each chapter presents a section on current trends. As instrumentation as a field is becoming increasingly smart, basic signal processing is also discussed. Real case-studies for each modelling approach are used, primarily covering blood pressure, ECG and radar-based devices.

This book is ideal for teaching and supporting learning as it is written in an accessible style and a solutions manual for the problem sets is provided. It will be useful to 4th year undergraduate students, graduate/masters/PhD students, early career researchers and professionals working on an interdisciplinary project; as it introduces the field and provides real world applications. For engineers this book solves the problem of how to assess and calibrate a medical device to ensure the data collected is trustworthy. For students, this book allows for trying concepts and circuits via simulations and learning modeling techniques. Students will learn concepts from this book and be ready to design bioinstrumentations devices based on specifications/requirements.




### Table of Content:
Overview of biomedical instrumentation and devices
#### Part I: Introduction to Modeling, Transducers and Electronics
Chapter 1 - Concepts in performance evaluation and uncertainty analysis \
Chapter 2 - Transducers \
Chapter 3 - Electronics \
Chapter 4 - Modeling and simulation of biomedical systems
#### Part II: Cardiovascular and Respiratory Monitoring Devices
Chapter 5 - Devices based on oscillometric signal: blood pressure \
Chapter 6 - Devices based on photoplethysmogram and pulse oximetry \
Chapter 7 - Devices based on the ECG signal \
Chapter 8 - Devices based on the time difference between signals: continuous blood pressure measurement \
Chapter 9 - Continuous monitoring of breathing \
Chapter 10 - Wearable devices \
Chapter 11 - Conclusion and research directions: beyond wearable devices


### Links

* [Elsevier](https://shop.elsevier.com/books/pervasive-cardiovascular-and-respiratory-monitoring-devices/bolic/978-0-12-820947-9)
* [Science Direct](https://www.sciencedirect.com/book/9780128209479/pervasive-cardiovascular-and-respiratory-monitoring-devices)

### Support or Contact

[Miodrag Bolic email ](mailto:mbolic@eecs.uottawa.ca)
